---
layout: post
title:  "AWS Introduction"
permalink: "/aws/day1"
date:   2017-01-12 15:39:33 +0000
categories: AWS
---
# Cloud Computing

 Delivery of on demand computing resources.

- pay for what you use
- Elastic resources
- self and Metered services
- from single machine to data centers in minutes

AWS provides a service-driven application architecture in which you choose a specific service, such as S3, to perform specific tasks, such as to back up files on a hard drive.

### Service Driven application
Also known as [SOA] - Service Oriented Architecture [reliable, flexible services]


#### Software Architecture evolution

client-server -> [SOA] -> [MicroServices]

# Cloud Computing Service Models

Cloud Providers provide their services according to different Models, if we stack layers they are like this



Layers of service models | examples
--- |---|
SaaS |CRM, email, games
PaaS | databse, webserver, development toolss
IaaS | Virtual Machines, Network, load balancers


## SaaS
A software distribution service that lets you use applications without actually having the applications installed locally. Another term used to describe this service is software on demand. The host, Provider, maintains the software, provides the required licenses, and does all the other work needed to make the software available.
SaaS typically keeps the host completely in control and doesn’t offer any sort of monitoring.

### providers:
Salesforce CRM
Gmail
Many Monitoring providers[New Relic]
Many Database Providers [AWS RDS]

## PaaS
A platform provides a complete solution for running software in an integrated manner on a particular piece of hardware. For example, Windows is a particular kind of platform. The virtual platform provided by PaaS allows a customer to develop, run, and manage applications of all sorts.
PaaS is more of a development solution than a production environment solution

### providers:
RedHat Openshift
Google App Engine
Microsoft Azure


## IaaS
A form of cloud computing that provides virtualized computing resources. You essentially use IaaS to replace physical resources, such as servers, with virtual resources hosted and managed by Amazon.

### providers:
- Amazon AWS
- Windows Azure
- Google Compute Engine
- Rackspace open Cloud



There are other models like,  DaaS, i.e Database as a service , XaaS everything as a service

# Cloud Computing Deployment Models

- All in the Cloud
- Hybrid
- On Premises

# AWS architecture and components

## AWS Regions
AWS currently has about 10 regions, each containing multiple data centers within themselves

In simple terms, the resources that are geographically close to your organization are served much faster! For example, an organization running predominantly from USA can leverage the USA's regions to host their resources and gain access to them must faster.

```
AWS does not replicate resources across regions automatically. It is up to the end user to set up the replication process.
```

## AWS Availablity Zones

Each region is split up into one or more Availability Zones (AZs) and pronounced as A-Zees. An A Z is an isolated location inside a region. AZs within a particular region connect to other AZs via low-latency links.

For More and Updated information check this link -
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html


A-Zees are one or more physical data centers that host AWS services on them. Just as with regions, even AZs have corresponding codes to identify them, generally they are regional names followed by a numerical value. For example, if you select and use us-east-1, which is the North Virginia region, then it would have AZs listed as us-east-1b, us-east-1c, us-east-1d, and so on:



Region | Name | Code
--- |---| ---|
North America |US East (N. Virginia) |us-east-1
 | US West (N. California) | us-west-1
 | US West (Oregon)|us-west-2
South America|Sao Paulo|sa-east-1
Europe| EU (Frankfurt)|eu-central-1
 | EU (Ireland)|eu-west-1
 | EU (London)|eu-west-2
 Asia|Asia Pacific (Tokyo)|ap-northeast-1
  |Asia Pacific (Singapore)|ap-southeast-1
  |Asia Pacific (Sydney)|ap-southeast-2
  |Asia Pacific (Beijing)|cn-north-1
  |Asia Pacific (Mumbai)|ap-south-1
  |Asia Pacific (Seoul)|ap-northeast-2


## Note

- AZs are very important from a design and deployment point of view. Being data centers, they are more than capable of failure and downtime, so it is always good practice to distribute your resources across multiple AZs and design your applications such that they can remain available even if one AZ goes completely offline.
- We have to design and distribute your applications so that they do not suffer any potential outages or failures.
-  Design for failure and nothing will fail!



[SOA]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-oriented_architecture
[MicroServices]:http://satishgummadelli.github.io/microservices/principles
